docs(feat): smtp for elastic metal MTA-1952 (#590)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/elastic-metal/how-to/index.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: Setting up Gitlab with a Managed Database for PostgreSQL

Reviewer: Seems like something has gone wrong here? I think this is the wrong content for this file.

>   title: Setting up Gitlab with a Managed Database for PostgreSQL

Author: ```suggestion
  title: Elastic Metal How Tos
```

  description: This page shows you how setup Gitlab with a managed PostgreSQL database
content:
  h1: Setting up Gitlab with a Managed Database for PostgreSQL
  paragraph: This page shows you how setup Gitlab with a managed PostgreSQL database
tags: Gitlab PostgreSQL-database 
  - storage
  - database
dates:
  validation: 2022-03-08
  posted: 2019-11-08
---

## Gitlab - Overview

[GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/) is an open-core Git repository manager that provides a wiki, issue tracking and CI/CD pipeline features. Open-core means that the core functionalities of the software are released under an open-source license with additional optional modules.
Many large technology companies use this tool to manage their software development life cycle. It was initially developed in Ruby and currently also uses Go and Vue.js as part of its technology stack.

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)  
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)

> - You have an Instance or Elastic Metal server running Ubuntu Bionic Beaver (18.04)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have an Instance or an Elastic Metal server running Ubuntu Bionic Beaver (18.04)
```

- You have a domain or subdomain configured to point to the IP address of your Instance
- You have [enabled the SMTP ports](/compute/instances/how-to/send-emails-from-your-instance/) to send emails from your Instance

</Message>

## Installing GitLab

> 1. Connect to your Instance using [SSH](/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Connect to your Instance using [SSH](/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/).
```

  ```
  ssh root@<your_instance_ip>
  ```

> 2. Update the `apt` packet cache and upgrade the software already installed on the instance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Update the `apt` packet cache and upgrade the software already installed on the Instance:
```

  ```
  apt update && apt upgrade -y
  ```

3. Install the following packages using `apt`:
  ```
  apt install -y curl ca-certificates postfix
  ```

4. Add the GitLab package repository and prepare the installation of GitLab Community Edition by running the script:
  ```
  curl https://packages.gitlab.com/install/repositories/gitlab/gitlab-ce/script.deb.sh | bash
  ```

5. Set your domain name in the `EXTERNAL_URL` variable, then install GitLab using `apt`:
  ```
  EXTERNAL_URL="https://gitlab.example.com" apt install -y gitlab-ce
  ```

  <Message type="important">

>   GitLab will automatically request a [Let's Encrypt](/tutorials/configure-nginx-lets-encrypt/) certifcate for your domain name. Make sure you have pointed the `A-Record` of your domain to your Instances IP address to be able to obtain a valid certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  GitLab will automatically request a [Let's Encrypt](/tutorials/configure-nginx-lets-encrypt/) certifcate for your domain name. Make sure you have pointed the `A-Record` of your domain to your Instance's IP address to obtain a valid certificate.
```

  </Message>

## Creating a Managed Database

1. [Create a Managed PostgreSQL Database Instance](/storage/database/how-to/create-a-database/) from the Scaleway console. We name our database `gitlab_production`.

  You are taken to your Managed Database's **Overview** page.

2. Click the **Users** tab, then on **Add User**.

> 3. Enter the username (`gitlab`) and a secure password. In the permission tab, give `ALL` permissions for the user on the `rdb` database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Enter the username (`gitlab`) and a secure password. In the **Permissions** tab, give `ALL` permissions to the user on the `rdb` database.
```

4. Retrieve the Database Instance **Endpoint** from the **Overview** tab, as it is required for the following steps. The first part, before the colon, is the IP address, and the second part is the port.

## Configuring the GitLab Database

For the following steps, you should be connected to the Ubuntu Bionic Beaver Instance on which you installed GitLab.

1. Open the file `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` in your favourite text editor (For example `nano` or `vim`).

2. Add the following parameters to the Gitlab configuration file:
    ```
    # Disable the built-in Postgres server
    postgresql['enable'] = false

    # Connection details of the Scaleway Elements Database
    gitlab_rails['db_adapter'] = 'postgresql'
    gitlab_rails['db_encoding'] = 'utf8'
    gitlab_rails['db_database'] = '<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_NAME>'
    gitlab_rails['db_host'] = '<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_IP>'
    gitlab_rails['db_port'] = '<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_PORT>'
    gitlab_rails['db_username'] = '<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_USERNAME>'
    gitlab_rails['db_password'] = '<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_PASSWORD>'
    ```

>     Replace the following values in the configuration:

Reviewer 2: remove "Elements" from all mentions below

    - `<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_BASE>`: The name of your Scaleway Elements Database. In our example, this is `rdb`
    - `<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_IP>`: The IP address of your Scaleway Elements Database Instance
    - `<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_PORT>`: The port of your Scaleway Elements Database Instance
    - `<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_USERNAME>`: Your Scaleway Elements Database user
    - `<SCALEWAY_DATABASE_PASSWORD>`: Password of your Scaleway Elements Database user

> 3. Once modified save the file and exit the text editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Save the file and exit the text editor.
```
